Chapter 2 Notes
The print() function make a new line at the end of the function.
If you do not want that, you can specify what is the end of the line.
Example:
print("This", end = " ")
print('is a use of one lined print.')
This makes the word "This" followed by the next text without a new line.
That is because the end of the first print function is specified with ending on a space, not new line.

Using triple quotes lets you make the print function span multiple lines of code.
print("""
This is some text
that spans many lines.
It can look like a poem.
Or not.""")
The triple quote print can be useful when making code not a mile long, but multiple lines long.
It can also be useful when making some type of drawing with characters like
print("""
a q p
   w
""")

I already used \n for new line in example print programs, but also know that \n can be used
as a tab character. And \a sounds the system bell.
Also, if you put a \ in front of a quote, it won't end a print statement.
For example:
print("This is a quote: \"Quote time\" - Josh")

Also note that you can do string math.
print("This" + "is" + "a" + "string") = This is a string.
print("uwu"*3) = uwuuwuuwu

Math
You can do math in python, and it's very easy to do. You can also do math on assigned variables.
For example:
my_apples = 10
my_apples-5 = 5
Note that the first line was an assignment of my_apples, and I did math on it.
I'll write a program named math.py to showcase some math.
Note that input() takes the input as a string, so you'll have to reassign the variable
as an int or float if you want the variable to be a number.
Or to make things easier, you can do this:
my_apples = int(input("How many apples do you have?"))
Note that putting the input() inside of the int() is called 'nesting' the input() function.
Actually, please note that the input() function always makes the variable a string.


Note that when making variables, you can't start with a number. All else is fine.
Try to make variable names that explain that the variable is doing.
This makes it easy to understand what the variable is for.

Strings
You can do string manipulations with print to make all things uppercase, lowercase, capitalizing
every word, and with replacements of parts of the string.
I'll make a program named strings.py to show this.

Math again
When doing mathematic modifications to a variable, you can save space
by using augmented assigment operators.
This just means you can save space.
For example:
price = 5
price *= 5
price = price *5
The second and third lines of code do the same thing. You can do this to save space for all
math operations to variables.