Chapter 6 Notes, Topic = Functions

Functions
Writing and using functions is a way to compartmentalize sections of code and pack them for easy access
	in a main function, and reuse in other programs.
For example, when working on a project, you perform one task 6 times in the main program.
	Instead of writing out the task the 6 times in the main program, you can write the task as a function
	and save it to another file. Then, you can call the function in the main program 6 times as single lines of code.
Using functions is a great way to simplify a main program code, and to make the function accessible in other main programs.
To call a function, you import the program name as a module, and you run the function.
	In fact, I've already been doing this with the random module:
		import random	-> this imports the module/program name
		random.randrange(0,10) 	-> this calls the 'randrange' function from the 'random' module, and passes 0 and 10 as the arguments
	Format of importing a function is the following:
		import program_name
			Note that this does not include the '.py' part of the file name
		program_name.function_name(arguments)
			You call the file name, '.', the function name, and pass the arguments
If the function is written in the main program, you don't need to include the 'program_name.' part of the code.
	You can just run: function_name(args)
Arguments are passed into a function to serve as the variables in the function.
	This is how you use you main program's variables in the function, despite the function using different variable names in its code.
	Say you have a function 'example.multiply(arg)' that should take the 'arg' variable and multiply it by three.
		In the function code, it may multiply a variable called 'my_variable'.
		If the function was written to import an argument for 'my_variable', your main program can use
			its own variable named 'your_variable', but if it's passed into the function, the function will use
			'your_variable' in place for 'my_variable' in its code.
Defining a function is simple:
	def function_name(input_parameters):
		code
You use 'def' to indicate that the function_name is a function, and you contain the input arguments within the parenthesis.
	When defining the function, use the input_aparameters name in the function to perform actions on imported arguments.
Note that when defining a function, the term for inputs is parameters (the parameters to run the function),
	and when the function is called, the variables put into the function are called arguments.
When you want a function to be used to declare a variable, you must use the 'return' command in the function.
For example, say I want the function to take 'your_variable', multiply it by three, and let me define 'function_output' as that result.
Here is the function and main code:
	#function
	def multiply(my_var):
		result = my_var * 3
		return result
	#main
	your_variable = 1
	function_output = multiply(your_variable)
	#now function_output has a value of 3
Note that 'return' is how you get something out of the function to use!

I wrote two programs to show how to write and import functions.
	The function is written in module_test.py, and the main program is function_test.py

Documentation String
When writing a function, it is common practice to include a "documentation string".
This is like a note for functions specifically.
To write a documentation string, encase a note in triple quotes, and make it the first line in the function:
	def function_name():
		"""This is the documentation string"""
		return 0

Abstraction
This is a concept to describe what functions do for code.
Functions let you perform an action without having the details written explictly in the main program.
This way, when you look at the main program code, you see a function and know what it's doing without having the whole code block written.
It is important to name functions with names that make it easy to understand what they do in the program,
	that way it still makes sense what you're doing in the program.

Encapsulation
This is a concept to describe what functions do for code as well, and it's a principal of abstraction.
Functions let you perform an action and keep all of the variables used in the function away from the main code.
This is useful because you can use variables in a function and not need to keep track of them in the main code.
Say you use a variable quote_to_string in a function because it is used to convert a variable 'quote' to a string.
	That name is great, and I actually want to use it in the main code to.
	I can do that since the variable names in the function are encapsulated from the main code.

Positional vs Keyword Parameters/Arguments
When you define a funtion with multiple parameters, the arguments passed to the function must be writtein the same order
	as the parameters to run as intended.
For example, see this function:
	def person_info(name, age):
		print("Hello,", name, "you are", age, "years old!)
If I pass a name and age in different orders, the result indicates that:
	input: person_info("Josh", "24")
	output: "Hello, Josh you are 24 years old!"
	input: person_info("24", "Josh")
	output: "Hello, 24 you are Josh years old!"
Notice that the order does matter because these arguments are passed as positional parameter.
However, if you pass the arguments as Keyword Parameters (explicit declaration), the order doesn't matter:
	input: person_info(name = "Josh", age = "24")
	output: "Hello, Josh you are 24 years old!"
	input: person_info(age = "24", name = "Josh")
	output: "Hello, Josh you are 24 years old!"
This is very important to know, since it can be easy to forget what order the variables need to be passed for a function.
What is also important to note is that all arguments must be either positional or keyword, not a mix.
	The function will fail if you pass some arguments as positional and some as keyword.

Default Parameter Values
It can be a great idea to give a function parameter values by default, in case the function needs to be run
	without any arguments (or you forget to give the arguments).
To do this, include the default values in the parameters section of function declaration:
	def person_info(name = "Josh", age = "24")
		print("Hello,", name, "you are", age, "years old!)
This lets you get a result of 
	"Hello, Josh you are 24 years old!"
	if you choose to just run person_info() without any arguments.
Note that if you choose to set a default value for one parameter, you must set the default value for all parameters.
	Otherwise you get an error.
Default parameters are a good idea to not get errors when running functions without arguments by accident.

Global Variables and Constants
Functions are encapsulated from main programs in that variables made and used in the functions are not included in main programs,
	but that does not mean that variables used in main programs are not available to functions.
When a variable is declared in a program, it is 'global', in that it can be accessed in the program and in functions.
Variables made in functions are 'local', in that they are only available in the function.
This means that a function may not need arguments passed if variable names in the function call global variables in the program.

Scope
Scope is a term to describe the information available to a region of code.
	So functions have scope of the function and the global variables.
	Main programs only have scope of the program itself, not variables made in functions.
At the same time, this means that a global variable can be modified in the function, but if the global variable
	is called back in the main program, it remains unchanged.
	You can change this setting by write 'global', but the default is given as above.
	
Shadow Variables
Global variables can be modified in functions, to have a 'local' value.
At the same time, global variables that are redeclared are given a new 'local' value, while the previous value is 'shadowed.'
	This means that the value of the global variable is lost in the function, but not lost in the main program.
Ideally, do not shadow global variables because it can get confusing fast.

Declaring variables in functions intended for global use
You can make, modify, and redeclare variables in functions and make them available globally if you write 'global' in front.
For example:
	#function
	global my_variable = 5
This makes 'my_variable' have a value of five globally.

Global Variables and Constants
As a good practice, it is a bad idea to make variables intended to be modified many times.
It is best to make global variables if they will be constant, and keep continuously modified variables in functions.

The chapter concludes with an outline on making a tic-tac-toe game with AI. I will copy it to learn from.
I found the loophole: if you go first and choose 8, then 0 or 2, you can take one of two rows
	or 6, 2, 8 ->then you can fill one of two positions.
	Essentially, the hole is that the computer cannot recognize taking a corner as a pre-winning move.


Challenges:
1. Improve the ask_number() function in the tic-tac-toe game so the function can be called with a step value.
	Make the default value of step 1.
	Done, solution = tic_tac_toe_2.py
2. Modify the Guess My Number game from Chapter 3 by reusing the function ask_number()
	Done, solution = guess_my_number_2.py
3. Modify the new version of Guess My Number you created in the last challenge so that the program's code
	is in a function called main(). Don't forget to call main() so that you can play the game.
	Done, solution = guess_my_number_2_2.py
	Note: because I had to import tic_tac_toe_2.py and the program runs main(), main() automatically runs in guess_my_number_2_2.py
	In the future, note that when importing, main code automatically runs.
	I made an option to run it in this case by editing tic_tac_toe_2.py to inclue optional running of main().
4. Write a new computer_move() function for the tic-tac-toe game to plug the hole in the computer's strategy.
	See if you can create an opponent that is unbeatable!
	
	How to make solution:
	Find the only two solutions.
		Only if human goes first.
		If board has 7 empty spaces and the human occupied space is a corner, computer move on opposite corner.
		
	Count number of empty spaces in board. If 7:
		if occupied space is human and is in list[0, 2, 6, 8]:
			if human space is 0:
				move 8
			if human space is 2:
				move 6
			if human space is 6:
				move 2
			if human space is 8:
				move 0
	I did this, but it turns out that you can still win. I don't think it is possible to always lose if you go first.
	Regardless, my solution is tic_tac_toe_improved.py