Chapter 3 Notes
This chapter will introduce modules, branching, loops, and program planning.

Modules
Modules are sets of functions that can be called in a program to use those functions without hard
coding them into the program from scratch. For example, in my introduction to this book I
wrote about directory operations with the module os. In this chapter, the module used in the
examples is 'random'.

With the 'random' module there are many functions, and the two discussed are randint() and 
randrange(). The first takes arguments of starting and ending integers, and produces a random
integer between the two, including the minimum and maximum. The latter takes a max integer
and produces any integer from 0 to one integer below the max.
I'll write a program named chance.py to showcase these.

Branching
Branching is a very important part of programming; it's how you allow for a decision to follow
one or more paths. A common branching method is using the 'if' statement. The 'if' statement
checks whether the 'condition' written in a program is valid. A 'condition' will be true or false.
For example:
if programmer == 'Josh':
	print('The programmer is Josh.')
This checks if the programmer is Josh, and if so, runs the code
after the colon; it prints 'The programmer is Josh.'
The '== Josh' is the condition, which means 'is Josh'. The '==' is a comparison operator that
means 'is equal to'. A single '=' would be as assignment in a program, so the double '=' is a
comparison operator. Other comparison operators include:
!= : not equal to
> : greater than
< : less than
>= : greater than or equal to
<= : less than or equal to 
When the condition is not met, the program does not execute the line of code within the 'block'
below the 'if' statement. A 'block' is a set of code indented below a line of code to show that
the indented lines of code are dependent on the unindented line of code above it. In the example
above, the 'print' function is dependent on the result of the 'if' statement.
It is best practice to use either a tab or four spaces to make an indention. I will use tabs.

The 'else' statement performs an action when the 'if' statement is not met. The 'else'
statement must be in the same block as the 'if' statement; do not contain the 'else' within the
'if' block. For example, this is correct:
if programmer == 'Josh':
	print('The programmer is Josh.')
else:
	print('The programmer is not Josh.')
For branching if statements with more than two possibilities, use 'elif' for additional conditions.
The 'elif' can be seen as a 'else if'; a secondary 'if' statement that is not yet 'else'.
For example:
if programmer == Josh:
	print('The programmer is Josh.')
elif programmer == Kyle:
	print('The programmer is Kyle.')
elif progammer == 'Jakob':
	print('The programmer is Jakob.')
else:
	print('I don't know who the programmer is.')
This checks the first 'if', then checks the first 'elif', then the second 'elif', then goes to else.
You an have as many 'elif' statements as you want, as long as you have an 'if' at first.
I will make an example of the if, elif, and else statements in the program programmer.py
I will make an example of the if and else statements in the program password.py

While loops
While loops are a way to execute lines of code numerous times until a specified condition is met.
The way to write the loop is the following:
while 'variable' 'condition':
	code
You must initialize the 'variable' with some value. In addition, it is very important to
make some modification to the variable per iteration of the loop such that eventually
the loop will end. You must change the variable to have the while statement be TRUE at some point
otherwise the loop will iterate until the end of time.
The official name of the 'variable' used in while loops is the 'sentry variable'.

Note: to end an infinite loop, press Ctrl+C
I will write a program named toddler_simulator.py to showcase the while loop.
Also note: any variable can be true or false without a condition written.
If a variable has any value (string is anything, integer and float are any value other than 0)
then it is TRUE. So, the following statement
if value:
Can be a an actual statement. If 'value' is any string other than empty ('') or integer/float
other than zero, the branching ends.
Essentially, this three lines of code are the same:
if value:
if value != 0
if value != ''

"break" is an important command to put in loops as a safeguard against infinite loops. If I make
a loop that could continue forever, it is useful to make a condition where the loop breaks
at some large value. That way the "break" may not happen for a normal run, but will stop
before it gets out of hand.
"continue" works in the opposite fashion in that a condition with "continue" as the action
can skip the loop instance for that value and continue on to the next value in the loop.

Logical Operators
"and", "or", and "not" are logical operators, in comparison to the comparison operators (==, !=...).
"and" combines conditions into a compound condition, where all of the conditions must be TRUE
for the compound condition to be TRUE. "or" can have any one of the conditions in a compound
condition be TRUE for the compound condition overall to be TRUE. "not" reverses a condition
such that what was TRUE is now FALSE, or what was FALSE is now TRUE.

Pseudocode
Pseudocode is very helpful in writing algorithms, which are sets of instructions
to accomplish a task. Sometimes algorithms require a bit of planning to work well, so writing
short hand code (or pseudocode) helps make an outline for writing the code.

When working on the challenges, something came up:
	'else' for an 'if' statement embedded in a 'while' loop makes the 'else' always run
	for each iteration when the condition in the 'while' loop is false.